From the metabolite data of the introgression lines, Arjen found riboflavin as candidate metabolite. 
In 2016, Paula did a bioassay on cultivar KG1955 grown in hydroponics with or without riboflavin added to the solution.
The plants did not handle the riboflavin treatment very well, 6 of the 12 plants died. Of the control treatment, only 1 of the 12 died.
In the word document is Paula's explenation of the experimental set-up, in case anything is unclear.

Because the eggs and small nymphs (instar 1-3) can be difficult to count, Paula does not trust the first part of the data (until the first 4th instars emerge).
She's afraid she might have missed some. Therefore she only took a ratio between the number of 4th instars per total number of nymphs on the last day for the graph & statistics.
If you only do this for the last day of the experiment, you see a lower 4th instar/total nymphs ratio on riboflavin treated plants

As Paula tried her best for both treatments to count all eggs and nymphs (and I believe she's really careful and precise with experiments), 
I don't really think it matters if there were a few miscounts. This will probably be aproxamatly the same for the two treatments.
Therefore I think I could take the number of eggs to calculate the emergence and survival rate. 
I know you don't like using ratio's for statistics, but Yu-Hsien told me this is the most fair way to show insect developmental data. 
He also said that using the total number of nymphs on the last day for a ratio is deffinetly not oke.

I tried making line graphs for absolute number of eggs or nymphs over time and for the ratio of (4th instar) nymphs per eggs over time, 
and I don't find anything that points towards resistance on riboflavin fed plants.

The excel file is the original dataset, the csv file is were I tried to order the data a bit.

Update: Petra and I had a meeting this morning in which we discussed these results. She understands why I don't see any evidence for resistance for riboflavin in this data. 
Riboflavin might still play a role in the resistance, but only in combination with other things (genes, enzymes, metabolites, physiological aspects) in LA1840 (chmielewskii).
We still need to come up with a good experiment for this hypothesis.
Petra came up with the idea to redo this experiment, but also use the resistant introgression line on hydroponics.
Or better would be to use a LA1840 knock-out line of a riboflavin synthase, but this is probably really difficult/impossible.
